<b> Big Data </b>: Big data refers to data that is so large, fast or complex that it's difficult or impossible to process using traditional methods.
<b>Data Analysis</b>: Data analysis is the process of inspecting, cleansing, transforming, and modeling data with the goal of discovering useful information, informing conclusions, and supporting decision-making.
<b>Descriptive analytics</b>: Descriptive analytics is the most basic type of data analytics. It is used to describe what has happened in the past. It does not try to predict the future or explain why things happened. Instead, it simply summarizes the data and identifies trends and patterns.
<b>Diagnostic analytics</b>: Diagnostic analytics helps businesses understand why things happened. It is used to identify causes of problems and opportunities. Diagnostic analytics is typically used after descriptive analytics has been used to identify trends and patterns in data.
<b>Predictive analytics</b>: Predictive analytics can be used to make predictions about future sales, customer behavior and other events. It is typically used after descriptive analytics and diagnostic analytics have been used to understand the past and identify the causes of problems.
<b>Prescriptive analytics</b>: Prescriptive analytics is a type of data analytics that recommends actions that businesses should take. It is used to optimize business decisions and processes. Prescriptive analytics is the most advanced type of data analytics and is typically used after descriptive analytics, diagnostic analytics and predictive analytics have been used to understand the past, identify the causes of problems, and predict future events.
<b>Cognitive analytics</b>: Cognitive analytics is a type of data analytics that uses artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to understand and interpret data. It is often described as a way of “thinking like a human” when analyzing data.
<b>Artificial Intelligence</b>: Artificial intelligence is the intelligence of machines or software, as opposed to the intelligence of living beings, primarily of humans. 
<b>Machine Learning</b>: Machine learning (ML) is a field of study in artificial intelligence concerned with the development and study of statistical algorithms that can learn from data and generalize to unseen data, and thus perform tasks without explicit instructions.
<b>Deep Learning</b>: Deep learning is the subset of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks (ANNs) with representation learning. The adjective "deep" refers to the use of multiple layers in the network.
<b>Predictive AI</b>: Predictive artificial intelligence (AI) is a computer program's ability to use statistical analysis to identify patterns, anticipate behaviors, and forecast future events. 
<b>Generative AI</b>: Generative artificial intelligence (generative AI, GenAI,[1] or GAI) is artificial intelligence capable of generating text, images or other data using generative models, often in response to prompts.
<b>Artificial Narrow Intelligence</b>: Artificial narrow intelligence (ANI) is defined as the goal-oriented version of AI designed to better perform a single task such as tracking weather updates, generating data science reports by analyzing raw data, or playing games such as poker, chess, et
<b>Artificial General Intelligence</b>: Artificial general intelligence (AGI) is a field of theoretical AI research that attempts to create software with human-like intelligence and the ability to self-teach.
<b>Artificial Super Intelligence</b>: Artificial super intelligence is a hypothetical software-based AI system with intellect beyond human intelligence.
<b>Reactive Machine AI</b>: AI capable of responding to external stimuli in real time; unable to build memory or store information for future.
<b>Limited Memory AI</b>: AI that can store knowledge and use it to learn and train for future tasks.
<b>Theory of Mind AI</b>: AI that can sense and respond to human emotions, plus perform the tasks of limited memory machines.
<b>Self-Aware AI</b>: AI that can recognize others’ emotions, plus has sense of self and human-level intelligence; the final stage of AI.
<b>Small data</b>: Small data is data that is 'small' enough for human comprehension. It is data in a volume and format that makes it accessible, informative and actionable.